Translator: Maurício Kakuei Tanaka
Reviewer: Elena Crescia
I have a question for you.
Anybody in the audience
who doesn't have a plastic ID?
Anybody?
Well, think about it.
Plastic is everywhere.
The buttons on your shirt,
your mobile cover,
the water from the plastic
bottle you just had,
plastic money in the wallet, maybe.
It is interesting
how plastic has become
an integral part of our lives
and how we cannot go
one single day without it.
Do you know what that makes me think?
How my generation is inheriting
not just this legacy
but also the problem that comes with it:
the problem of what we throw
in our oceans.
Hello, everybody.
My name is Haaziq Kazi.
I am 12 years old,
and I alone have a plastic debt
of roughly 66 tons and counting.
So, in case you are wondering,
What is plastic debt?
It is the amount of non-cycled plastic
which we humans
leave behind on this planet.
How many Indians in the house today?
Raise your hands, please.
According to a study,
for every person in India,
six tons of plastic
is not recycled annually.
Any Americans here?
Your figures are even more astounding.
Ninety tons per person of plastic
which is not recycled, annually.
Imagine, in a lifetime, how much plastic
is left behind because of us.
When we die, our bodies
go back to Mother Earth,
but the plastic debt is left behind
as a legacy for the coming generations.
Did you know that by 2050,
we will have as much, or maybe more,
plastic in the ocean than fish?
Speaking of which, every time
I see people eating fish,
I wonder,
"Are they eating fish or plastic?"
Because the plastic we dispose
that ends up in the ocean
might have been consumed
by the same fish which gets on our plate -
talk about the vicious karmic cycle.
The magnitude of the problem
inspired me to do something about this.
Hence, I came up
with an idea of an invention
that could help make the oceans
a cleaner place:
an ocean cleaner called ERVIS.
ERVIS is an intelligent ship
which sucks waste from the ocean surface
and cleans it.
It all started two years back.
I saw some documentaries
and a TED Talk of Boyan Slat
about how he wanted to clean the oceans.
A few days later, as I came home
from playing football,
my mom asked me to wash my hands,
and as I went to the sink
to get the dirt off,
I observed a whirlpool of water
going down the drain.
An idea came to my mind,
and I smiled.
I drew and created a rough model,
a circular ship with saucers attached,
a very futuristic design,
much like the USS Enterprise
from Star Trek.
Come on, we all love the series.
Right?
This was just the first draft.
The propellers weren't automated,
and it only lasted seven seconds
in water before coming apart.
But there it was:
my ERVIS,
my vision of changing the oceans.
While guzzling down
innumerable cups of hot chocolate -
you know, I'm still a kid,
no coffee for me -
I did some exhaustive research
to achieve my vision of ERVIS, which is:
first, to clean the current waste
floating in the ocean;
second, to analyze the data
from the waste which we collect;
and third, to stop it at source,
which is getting disposed by the ships.
I also realized that a circular shape
was not very efficient
and that I had to redesign my ship
to be more hydrodynamic.
So I worked with scientists and engineers
to create a more bleeding edge model.
So here's how it works.
The ship is essentially a large boat
powered by solar
and renewable natural gas,
with various compartments,
and saucers surrounding it.
The saucers float on the surface,
gravitate to create a whirlpool
to pull the waste towards its center,
which is then sent through a tube
to various chambers in the ship.
The chambers include an oil chamber,
which collects waste oil.
The next four chambers
are for large, medium, small,
and micro-waste, respectively.
Just imagine ERVIS
to be a gigantic vacuum cleaner
with many cleaning tubes
attached to many dust bags.
Once the waste enters the chambers,
ERVIS analyzes, segregates,
and compacts it,
and pumps the filtered water
back into the oceans,
all without harming
marine life in the process.
ERVIS, the ship, is my contribution
in making the Earth a better place.
(Applause)
And I hope, in some way,
it can inspire you to find your idea
which can bring a positive
change in the world.
Thank you.
(Applause) (Cheers)